---
layout: post
title: New Book
---

Started working through Agile Web Development in Rails 4 last night. I feel discouraged by the fact that I keep restarting Rails walkthroughs. I can see why going through all these steps is a good thing, but I was never one to follow steps and make sure everything is just right the first time. I don't feel I am grasping concepts though, and I think this is somewhat crucial.

I continue to work on my little projects here and there, and hope to make them more robust. I am hoping to move this personal blog to a different format be it Jekyll or even a Tumblr so I can just focus on making personal posts and logging my experiences. This will allow me to feel like this site really should be about a recipe app. This has not been done yet, and I still don't know what is making me scared to proceed.

One thing I did notice is that I have a controller for each static page versus creating a static pages controller housing the 3 routes. This needs to be changed and hopefully I do it without breaking. Once I do this I will pull the blog entries and focus strictly on posting updates related to this app only. I think overall I am proud of the fact that I have a working blog and user login for myself set up, though it can have more functionality.

The most important thing is I don't want to stop and I want to keep working on this. I keep telling myself that people go through similar road blocks in this process, but I also see people who are able to get up and go so quickly that it can be intimidating.