---
layout: post
title: Married
comments: true
---

  This weekend Drew and I tied the knot! Everything has been happening very fast and I'm still processing it all, but I am very happy.  We decided to do it on our 6 month anniversary, with a couple of witnesses at marriage court downtown.
  
  I feel very lucky to have this amazing person by my side after all this time.  I am looking forward to a lifetime of this joy with Drew. He is incredibly supportive and understands me in a way that I dont think I've ever experienced from my closest friends or even family.  I am happy that we have each other, can grow, learn, and experience life together.  I could not imagine any of this with anyone else.
  
  We celebrated by having guests enjoy beers with us at Hopleaf, our favorite bar in the city.  This place is like our Cheers, we go almost weekly and we love our bartenders who have become good friends over the years.  They were able to reserve the new bar area for us and it was spectacular.  They provided beer and food, while our friends provided the memories, laughs, and great conversation.  The highlight for me was seeing our families there, supporting us, sharing in the experience along with our closest friends.
  
  This week will involve a bit of catch up as I go back to recleaning and reorganizing our place.  I'm still a bit anxious and stressed about the weekend even though it is over, but I think that will go away as I get busy and settle back into my work routine. I'll be trying to work on side projects where I can, but much of my focus will be on our home and preparing for Argentina at the end of the month.
