---
layout: post
title: Favorite Music This Year
comments: true
---

I love listening to music all throughout the day, and I've had various conversations with people about what their favorite albums were of this past year.  I thought I'd put my own list together to think back on what I was listening to.  I decided to keep it straightforward and true to actual plays so I decided to use my Last.fm scrobbles as a baseline.  I always have scrobbling set up on my laptop and my phone to capture what I'm listening to.  Below are my top 10 favorite albums and songs of the last year.

### Favorite Albums

1. Honeymoon - Lana del Rey
2. Emotion - Carly Rae Jepsen
3. Big GRRRL Small World - Lizzo
4. Ratchet - Shamir
5. All Possible Futures - Miami Horror
6. Lease of Life - Errors
7. Death Magic - Health
8. Beauty Behind the Madness - The Weeknd
9. Elsewhere - Moullinex
10. Gunship - Gunship

Pop and Electronic seems to dominate my list this year.  This is probably the case every year, but my obsession with Lana del Rey and Carly Rae Jepsen definitely brought it over the edge.  Lizzo is one of my favorite artists and her release in the past week has been playing a lot. Miami Horror was completely new to me, but I absolutely love this album, it's a really fun listen that has gone on repeat a few times. I'm actually surprised The Weeknd wasn't higher, I felt like I listened to this album as much as at least the top 5, but a great album nonetheless.  To round it out is a random release from this year with Gunship's outrun/80s movie soundtrack inspired album.

### Favorite Songs

1. "On the Regular" - Shamir
2. "High by the Beach" - Lana del Rey
3. "I Really Like You" - Carly Rae Jepsen
4. "Ride" - Lizzo
5. "The Hills" - The Weeknd
6. "Music To Watch Boys To" - Lana del Rey
7. "Fly for Your Life" - Gunship
8. "Need You Now" - Hot Chip
9. "Slow Rotor" - Errors
10. "American Dream" - Miami Horror

My favorite songs are pretty straightforward considering the top albums.  Shamir's "On the Regular" came out on top, given the amount of plays and just how fun this song is.  I gave two songs to Lana, I really loved her album and these two songs were my favorites.  "Fly for Your Life" by Gunship was my introduction to this group and their album.  The video for this track is amazing, and it just feels like a really epic song, good for bike rides. The only song not from a top album is "Need You Now" by Hot Chip.  I really enjoyed this song and the vocals that they used here, definitely stood out on the album for me. 
